# vPECA
vPECA is a Variants interpretation method by Paired Expression and Chromatin Accessibility data which can identify active and active selected regulatory elements and their gene regulatory network.


1. Data availability

There are three essential components for the data organization in "Chromatin accessibility landscape and regulatory network of high-altitude hypoxia adaptation".

(1) Metadata spreadsheet
The Metadata spreadsheet is provide in Summay_info_of_HUVEC_data.xlsx, which contains four subsheets, i.e., NGS, RNA-seq, ATAC-seq, and Hi-C. Metadata refers to descriptive information about the overall study, individual samples, all protocols, and references to processed and raw data file names. Information is supplied by completing all fields of a metadata template spreadsheet. Guidelines on the content of each field are provided within the spreadsheet. The reference assembly used (hg19) is provided in the metadata spreadsheet.

(2) Raw data
The raw data files are the original files containing reads and quality scores, as generated by the Illumina sequencing instrument. Raw Data File Format is FASTQ. We provide MD5 checksums for all the data files. The checksums are used to verify file integrity. All the RAW data and processed data produced in this study have been permanently deposited in the GSA database under project ID PRJCA001312. The users and reviewers can access the raw data with fastq and bam files freely via URL:  https://bigd.big.ac.cn/gsa/s/bU861687. 
The metadata, peak, and bigwig track files are available at
ftp://download.big.ac.cn/gsa/CRA002025/processed_data/.
Metadata spreadsheets provide friendly access by linking the sample names with raw and processed data download links.

(3) Processed data
The final processed data are defined as the data on which the conclusions in the related manuscript are based. 
1) The normalized abundance measurements output from Cufflinks for the expression profiling analysis results on quantitative data for genes. 
2) Peak files with quantitative openness data with a format bed and txt files for ATAC-Seq data. 
3) Tag density files for ATAC-seq in bigWig format. They can be visualized in the UCSC genome browser. 
4) Features (e.g., genes, transcripts) in processed data files are traceable using public accession numbers or chromosome coordinates. 
5) A description of the format and content of processed data files are provided in the metadata spreadsheet data processing fields. 
6) HiC matrix file.

